In the previous video, we have done configuring
VTP on all switches.
So switch 1 become server, switch 2 become transparent,
switch 3 become client, and switch 4 become server.
Next in this video, we are going to create
a VLAN.
But before that, let’s check on all switches,
make sure that there is no new vlan created yet.
Let’s start with switch 1, do show vlan brief,
okay here we can see that we only have default vlan,
which is vlan 1 and some others vlan.
Next, let’s check on switch 2, do show vlan
brief. Okay here we can see that we also only
have default vlan.
Switch 3, do show vlan brief.
Okay here also only default vlan, and last
switch 4, do show vlan brief.
Okay here also only default vlan.
Now let’s try to create a vlan on VTP server.
Create vlan 2, the name let’s say A, vlan
3 let’s say the name is B, vlan 4,
let’s say the name is C, vlan 5, let’s say the
name is D.
You are free to use anything for the vlan name.
Now Let’s check it, do show vlan brief,
okay here we can see that now in switch 1,
we have 4 new vlan, which is vlan 2 until
5.
Now let’s check on the vtp client, do show
vlan brief.
Okay here we can see that we have 4 new vlan.
We don’t create any vlan here, we only create
a vlan on switch 1, so all of this vlan is
created automatically.
Let’s also check on switch 4, do show vlan
brief.
Okay here we can see that we also have 4 new
vlan.
And all of this vlan is also created automatically.
So the summary is, vtp server also act as
vtp client.
Now let’s try to modify a vlan on switch 4,
let’s try to remove vlan 5,
the command is no vlan 5, let’s check it, do show vlan
brief.
Okay here we can see that vlan 5 is gone.
Let’s chek it on the vtp client, do show
vlan brief.
Okay here vlan 5 is also gone.
Next let’s also check on switch 1, do show
vlan brief.
Okay here we still have vlan5, this is should
be gone.
May be this is need some time for vlan 5 to
gone.
Let’s click fast forward time, let’s check
again, okay here still exist,
I think this is a bug on cisco packet tracer.
To solve this, let’s try to create a new
vlan on switch 4, let’s create vlan 6,
let’s say the name is e. Let’s check it, do show
vlan brief, okay here we have vlan 6,
let’s check on the vtp client, okay we have vlan
6, let’s check on switch 1,
okay here we can see that now vlan 5 is gone and now
we have vlan 6.
Okay, so now we understand that vtp server
also acts as vtp client, if other server doing
vlan modification, the switch will follow
that modification.
Next let’s talk about vtp client, we know
that the vlan on vtp client will follow the
vlan on the vtp server.
So if server create a new vlan or remove vlan,
the vlan on the vtp client will follow that.
So here we can see that we have vlan 2 3 4
and 6 automatically.
Next we need to know that in the vtp client,
we can not doing vlan modification.
We can not create or remove a vlan.
For example, here we want to remove vlan 6.
The command is no vlan 6. Okay here we can
see an error message “vlan configuration
not allowed when device is in client mode”,
this is means that we can not modify vlan configuration.
Okay we can not remove vlan, let’s try to
create vlan, let’s say vlan 7.
Okay here we can see that we also can not
create a new vlan.
Okay now we understand about vtp server and
vtp client, next, let’s learn about transparent.
Vtp transparent not follow also not affect
other switches.
For example here let’s try to see the vlan,
do show vlan brief.
Here we can see that we only have default
vlan, this is means that switch transparent
not follow the vlan configuration of vtp server.
here we don’t have vlan 2, 3, 4 and 6.
But we can create a vlan in vtp transparent,
let’s try to create vlan, vlan 10,
the name let’s say k, vlan 11, let’s say the name
L. Let’s check the vlan, do show vlan brief.
Okay here we can see that now we have vlan
10 and vlan 11.
Now let’s check in the server, do show vlan
brief.
Here we can see that we don’t have vlan
10 and 11, let’s check in the client,
do show vlan brief, here we can see that we also
don’t have vlan 10 and vlan 11.
So remember that vtp transparent not follow
the vlan configuration of vtp server,
but also not affect other switches.
Okay I hope you understand about vtp.
I think enough for this video.
Thankyou for watching and see you on the next video.